- add a clarification about Intel MKL, IPP, DNN (#7477)
conan-io/conan-center-index: docs/faqs.md

There are no guarantees that recipes will work correctly in future Python versions having breaking changes to the interpreter,
 as we don't test all the possible combinations (and probably will never be). Patches are welcomed if problems are found.

> ## How to package libraries that depend on Intel MKL, IPP or DNN libraries?

Reviewer: Could the title be more generic?

```suggestion
## How to package libraries that depend on proprietary closed-source libraries?
```

* [Intel Integrated Performance Primitives (IPP)](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/components/ipp.html)
* [Intel Deep Neural Networking Library (DNN)](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/components/onednn.html)

these Intel libraries are widely used by various well-known open-source projects (e.g. [OpenCV](https://opencv.org/) or [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/)).

Unfortunately, these Intel libraries cannot be accepted into ConanCenter due to several important reasons:

* they are closed-source and commercial products, ConanCenter cannot redistribute their binaries due to the license restrictions
* registration on the Intel portal is required in order to dowload the libraries, there are no permanent public direct download links
* they use graphical installers which are hard to automate within conan recipe

instead, the libraries that depend on *MKL*, *IPP* or *DNN* should use the following references:

* `intel-mkl/<version>`, e.g. `intel-mkl/2021`
* `intel-ipp/<version>`, e.g. `intel-ipp/2021`
* `intel-dnn/<version>`, e.g. `intel-dnn/2021`

> **NOTE**: These references are not availabe in ConanCenter and will be never available! it's consumer's responsibility to provide the recipes for that libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: These references are not available in ConanCenter and will be never available! it's the consumer's responsibility to provide the recipes for these libraries.
```

> **NOTE**: These references are not available in ConanCenter and will be never available! it's the consumer's responsibility to provide the recipes for these libraries.

Reviewer: Little more consise?

```suggestion
:warning: **NOTE**: These references are not available in ConanCenter and never will be! It is the consumer's responsibility to provide the recipes for these libraries.
```

Since these references will be never available in ConanCenter, they will be deactivated in the consuming recipes by default:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
```

    options = {
        "shared": [True, False],
        "fPIC": [True, False],
        "with_intel_mkl": [True, False]}
    default_options = {
        "shared": False,
        "fPIC": True,
        "with_intel_mkl": False}

    def requirements(self):
        if self.options.with_intel_mkl:
            self.requires("intel-mkl/2021")
```

> therefore, if consumers activate the option explicitly (`with_intel_mkl=True`), Conan will fail because of the unknown reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If consumers activate the option explicitly (`with_intel_mkl=True`), Conan will fail because of the unknown reference.
```

Consumers may use an [override](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/using_packages/conanfile_txt.html#overriding-requirements) facility in order to use their own private references for Intel MKL, IPP or DNN libraries.

> For instance, if you have a private reference `intel-mkl/2021@mycompany/stable`, then you may use the following override in your `conanfile.txt`:
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, if you have a private reference `intel-mkl/2021@mycompany/stable`, then you may use the following override in your `conanfile.txt`:

```
```

> [requires]

Reviewer: My suggestion broke the formatting 🤒 

There are some backticks missing for the code block (suggestion can not include them appeareantly)

Reviewer 3: @SSE4 , you need to fix this locally and push changes

There are no guarantees that recipes will work correctly in future Python versions having breaking changes to the interpreter,
 as we don't test all the possible combinations (and probably will never be). Patches are welcomed if problems are found.

## How to package libraries that depend on Intel MKL, IPP or DNN libraries?

There are several popular software libraries provided by Intel:

* [Intel Math Kernel Library (MKL)](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/components/onemkl.html)
* [Intel Integrated Performance Primitives (IPP)](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/components/ipp.html)
* [Intel Deep Neural Networking Library (DNN)](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/tools/oneapi/components/onednn.html)

these Intel libraries are widely used by the various well-known open-source projects (e.g. [OpenCV](https://opencv.org/) or [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/)).

> unfortunately, these Intel libraries cannot be accepted into ConanCenter due to the several important reasons:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, these Intel libraries cannot be accepted into ConanCenter due to several important reasons:
```

> * they are closed-source and commercial products, which we're not going to re-distribute via ConanCenter due to the license restrictions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* they are closed-source and commercial products, ConanCenter cannot redistribute their binaries due to the license restrictions
```

* registration on the Intel portal is required in order to dowload the libraries, there are no permanent public direct download links
* they use graphical installers which are hard to automate within conan recipe

> * they are pre-built binaries, so they will never respect any custom compiler flags specified

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

This doesn't belong here, it applies to every library that is downloading precompiled binaries. There is probably and entry about it.

Author: yes,  I think so

instead, the libraries that depend on *MKL*, *IPP* or *DNN* should use the following references:

* `intel-mkl/<version>`, e.g. `intel-mkl/2021`
* `intel-ipp/<version>`, e.g. `intel-ipp/2021`
* `intel-dnn/<version>`, e.g. `intel-dnn/2021`

> NOTE: these references are not availabe in ConanCenter and will be never available! it's consumer's responsibility to provide the recipes for that libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: These references are not availabe in ConanCenter and will be never available! it's consumer's responsibility to provide the recipes for that libraries.
```

> for instance, the following skeleton could be used as a starting point (given Intel MKL as an example):
> 
> ```
> from conans import ConanFile, tools
> 
> class ConanMKL(ConanFile):
>     name = "intel-mkl"
> 
>     def package_info(self):
>         self.cpp_info.includedirs = ["/opt/intel/mkl/include"]
>         self.cpp_info.libdirs = ["/opt/intel/mkl/lib"]
> ```
> 
> (most likely, the real recipe will use much more sophisticated logic to locate an existing installation, e.g. via environment variables)

Reviewer 3: Not sure if I would comment about this here. I think we should add a dedicated entry in the docs about _special recipes_, a place where we explain motivation and skeleton for some of them: system recipes, proxy ones, these ones,...

```suggestion
```

Author: yeah, it's very simple anyway, and we can add it to the `examples` repository, if needed

> since these references will be never available in ConanCenter, they should be deactivated in the consuming recipes by default:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since these references will be never available in ConanCenter, they will be deactivated in the consuming recipes by default:
```

```
    options = {
        "shared": [True, False],
        "fPIC": [True, False],
        "with_intel_mkl": [True, False]}
    default_options = {
        "shared": False,
        "fPIC": True,
        "with_intel_mkl": False}

    def requirements(self):
        if self.options.with_intel_mkl:
            self.requires("intel-mkl/2021")
```

> therefore, consumers will have to activate an option (`with_intel_mkl`) explicitly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
therefore, if consumers activate the option explicitly (`with_intel_mkl=True`), Conan will fail because of the unknown reference.
```

> consumers may use an [override](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/using_packages/conanfile_txt.html#overriding-requirements) facility in order to use their own private references for Intel MKL, IPP or DNN libraries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Consumers may use an [override](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/using_packages/conanfile_txt.html#overriding-requirements) facility in order to use their own private references for Intel MKL, IPP or DNN libraries.
```

> for instance, if you have a reference `intel-mkl/2021@mycompany/stable`, then you may use the following override in your conanfile:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For instance, if you have a private reference `intel-mkl/2021@mycompany/stable`, then you may use the following override in your `conanfile.txt`:
```
